Table resizing docs (#3840)
adobe/react-spectrum: packages/@react-spectrum/table/docs/TableView.mdx

The example below illustrates how each of the aforementioned column width properties affects their respective column's resize behavior.

```tsx example
<TableView
  aria-label="TableView with resizable columns"
  maxWidth={320}
  height={200} >
  <TableHeader>
    {/*- begin highlight -*/}
    <Column key="file" allowsResizing maxWidth={500}>File Name</Column>
    <Column key="size" width={80}>Size</Column>
    <Column key="date" allowsResizing minWidth={100}>Date Modified</Column>
    {/*- end highlight -*/}
  </TableHeader>
  <TableBody>
    <Row>
      <Cell>2022-Roadmap-Proposal-Revision-012822-Copy(2)</Cell>
      <Cell>214 KB</Cell>
      <Cell>November 27, 2022 at 4:56PM</Cell>
    </Row>
    <Row>
      <Cell>62259692_p0_master1200</Cell>
      <Cell>120 KB</Cell>
      <Cell>January 27, 2021 at 1:56AM</Cell>
    </Row>
  </TableBody>
</TableView>
```

### Resize events

TableView accepts an `onResize` prop which is triggered whenever a column resizer is moved by the user. This can be used in combination with the `width` prop to update a Column's width in a controlled fashion. TableView also accepts

> an `onResizeEnd` props, which is triggered when the user finishes a column resize operation. Both events receive a Map object containing the widths of every column in the TableView.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an `onResizeEnd` prop, which is triggered when the user finishes a column resize operation. Both events receive a Map object containing the widths of every column in the TableView.
```

page loads and refreshes.

```tsx example
let items = [
  {id: '1', file: '2022-Roadmap-Proposal-Revision-012822-Copy(2)', size: '214 KB', date: 'November 27, 2022 at 4:56PM'},
  {id: '2', file: '62259692_p0_master1200', size: '120 KB', date: 'January 27, 2021 at 1:56AM'}
];

let columnsData = [
  {name: 'File Name', id: 'file', width: '1fr'},
  {name: 'Size', id: 'size', width: 80},
  {name: 'Date', id: 'date', width: 100}
];

function ResizableTable() {
  /*- begin highlight -*/
  let [columns, setColumns] = React.useState(() => {
    let localStorageWidths = localStorage.getItem('RSPWidths');
    if (localStorageWidths) {
      let widths = JSON.parse(localStorageWidths);
      return columnsData.map(col => ({...col, width: widths[col.id]}));
    } else {
      return columnsData;
    }
  });

  let onResize = (widths) => {
    setColumns(columns => columns.map(col => ({...col, width: widths.get(col.id)})));
  };

  let onResizeEnd = (widths) => {
    localStorage.setItem('RSPWidths', JSON.stringify(Object.fromEntries(widths)));
  };

>   /*- end highlight -*/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  /*- end highlight -*/

```

  return (

>     <Flex direction="column">

Reviewer: What's the extra flex for?

Author: Ah derp, hold over from when the example had `pre` elements to show what widths were being provided to the event handlers, thanks for catching

}
```

## Column Resizing <VersionBadge version="beta" style={{marginLeft: 4, verticalAlign: 'bottom'}} />

TableView supports resizable columns, allowing users to dynamically adjust the width of a column. To designate that a Column is resizable, provide it with the `allowsResizing` prop. This will render a draggable
resizer handle that becomes visible on hover. Keyboard, touch, and screen reader users can start resizing by interacting with the target column's header and selecting the "Resize column" option
from the dropdown.

> ### Width values

Reviewer: I guess the width configuration isn't really specific to column resizing. Wonder if people will miss it because it is a sub-heading?

Author: I'll keep this section here and restore the old width values section we had down in visual options then

Reviewer: Not sure, it was more of a question for everyone

Reviewer 2: I'd worry about people missing how to define widths if it was under resizing only. Can we invert it and have resizing be a sub header?

Author: IMO, it would be good to preserve the old section and keep the resizing as the main header. I feel like most people who are looking for column resizing will look specifically for "Resizing" as a header and keeping the old section as will also keep the page layout familiar to old users (no confusion as to if that visual option has disappeared and old links will still work)

Reviewer 3: I agree, I would like width to be it's own heading/sub-heading and it could be referenced from the resizing section that seems ok

> Columns support four different width props: `defaultWidth`, `width`, `minWidth`, and `maxWidth`. Each of these props accepts fixed values or percentages, with `width` and `defaultWidth` accepting fractional (`fr`) units as well.

Reviewer: We might need to explain what an `fr` is somewhere.

An initial, uncontrolled width can be provided to a Column using the `defaultWidth` prop. This allows the column width to freely shrink and grow in relation to other column widths. Alternatively, a controlled value can be provided

> by the `width` prop. Providing a non-fractional value `width` to a Column sets its width to the value provided to it, making it unaffected by other columns' widths. `minWidth` and `maxWidth` allows you to restrict a Column's

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
by the `width` prop. Providing a non-fractional value `width` to a Column will make it unaffected by other columns' widths upon resize. `minWidth` and `maxWidth` allows you to restrict a Column's
```

width to a minimum and maximum value respectively. TableView prioritizes columns with defined widths and divides the remaining space evenly amongst the other columns.

The example below illustrates how each of the aforementioned column width properties affects their respective column's resize behavior.

```tsx example
<TableView
  aria-label="TableView with resizable columns"
  width={800}
  height={200} >
  <TableHeader>
    {/*- begin highlight -*/}
    <Column key="file" allowsResizing maxWidth={500}>File Name</Column>
    <Column key="type" allowsResizing defaultWidth="1fr">Type</Column>
    <Column key="size" width={80}>Size</Column>
    <Column key="date" allowsResizing minWidth={100}>Date Modified</Column>
    {/*- end highlight -*/}
  </TableHeader>
  <TableBody>
    <Row>
      <Cell>2022-Roadmap-Proposal-Revision-012822-Copy(2)</Cell>
      <Cell>PDF</Cell>
      <Cell>214 KB</Cell>
      <Cell>November 27, 2022 at 4:56PM</Cell>
    </Row>
    <Row>
      <Cell>62259692_p0_master1200</Cell>
      <Cell>PNG</Cell>
      <Cell>120 KB</Cell>
      <Cell>January 27, 2021 at 1:56AM</Cell>
    </Row>
  </TableBody>
</TableView>
```

### Resize events

> TableView accepts an `onResize` prop which is triggered whenever a column resizer is moved by the user. This can be used in combination with the `width` prop to update a Column's width in a controlled fashion. TableView also accepts
> an `onResizeEnd` prop as well, triggered when the user finishes a column resize operation. Both events receive a Map object containing the widths of every column in the TableView.

Reviewer: also...as well

```suggestion
TableView accepts an `onResize` prop which is triggered whenever a column resizer is moved by the user. This can be used in combination with the `width` prop to update a Column's width in a controlled fashion. TableView also accepts
an `onResizeEnd` prop, which is triggered when the user finishes a column resize operation. Both events receive a Map object containing the widths of every column in the TableView.
```

page loads and refreshes.

```tsx example
let items = [
  {id: '1', file: '2022-Roadmap-Proposal-Revision-012822-Copy(2)', type: 'PDF', size: '214 KB', date: 'November 27, 2022 at 4:56PM'},
  {id: '2', file: '62259692_p0_master1200', type: 'PNG', size: '120 KB', date: 'January 27, 2021 at 1:56AM'}
];

let columnsData = [
  {name: 'File Name', id: 'file', width: 500},
  {name: 'Type', id: 'type', width: '1fr'},
  {name: 'Size', id: 'size', width: 80},
  {name: 'Date', id: 'date', width: 100}
];

function ResizableTable() {
  /*- begin highlight -*/
  let [widths, setWidths] = React.useState(() => {
    let localStorageWidths = localStorage.getItem('RSPWidths');
    return localStorageWidths ?
      new Map(JSON.parse(localStorageWidths)) :
      new Map(columnsData.filter(col => col.width).map((col) => [col.id, col.width]));
  });

  let saveFinalWidths = (e) => {
    let finalWidths = JSON.stringify([...e]);
    localStorage.setItem('RSPWidths', finalWidths);
  };

>   // Create new columns object when tracked widths change so Virtualizer rerenders the new column widths

Reviewer: Not sure anyone will know what Virtualizer is since it is internal, so probably shouldn't highlight that.

I think we could potentially refactor this to store the widths in the column object itself rather than a separate map.

Untested, but possible solution:

```tsx
let [columns, setColumns] = React.useState(() => {
  let localStorageWidths = localStorage.getItem('RSPWidths');
  if (localStorageWidths) {
    let widths = JSON.parse(localStorageWidths);
    return columnsData.map(col => ({...col, width: widths[col.id]}));
  } else {
    return columnsData;
  }
});

let saveFinalWidths = (widths) => {
  localStorage.setItem('RSPWidths', JSON.stringify(Object.fromEntries(widths)));
};

let onResize = (widths) => {
  setColumns(columns => columns.map(col => ({...col, width: widths.get(col.id)})));
};
```

  let columns = React.useMemo(() => columnsData.map(col => ({...col})), [widths]);
  /*- end highlight -*/
  return (
    <Flex direction="column">
      <TableView
        /*- begin highlight -*/
        onResize={setWidths}
        onResizeEnd={saveFinalWidths}
        /*- end highlight -*/
        aria-label="TableView with controlled, resizable columns saved in local storage"
        width={800}
        height={200} >
        <TableHeader columns={columns}>
          {(column) => {
            const {name, id} = column;
            let width = widths.get(id);
            return <Column allowsResizing key={id} width={width}>{name}</Column>;
          }}
        </TableHeader>
        <TableBody items={items}>
          {(item) => (
            <Row key={item.id}>{(key) => <Cell>{item[key]}</Cell>}</Row>
          )}
        </TableBody>
      </TableView>
    </Flex>
  );
}

<ResizableTable />

> ```

Reviewer: These examples are too wide on mobile and mess up scrolling

Author: Updated. Also got rid of one of the columns since the table's columns were almost all the same due to the width restraint, I think the three columns should show how the widths work a bit better without immediately making the TableView scrollable right away

}
```

## Column Resizing <VersionBadge version="beta" style={{marginLeft: 4, verticalAlign: 'bottom'}} />

TableView supports resizable columns, allowing users to dynamically adjust the width of a column. To designate that a Column is resizable, provide it with the `allowsResizing` prop. This will render a draggable
resizer handle for each resizable column that becomes visible on hover. Keyboard, touch, and screen reader users can enter "resize" mode by interacting with the target column's header and selecting the "Resize column" option
from the dropdown.

### Width values

Columns support four different width props: `defaultWidth`, `width`, `minWidth`, and `maxWidth`. Each of these props accepts fixed values or percentages, with `width` and `defaultWidth` accepting fractional (`fr`) units as well.

> Providing a non-fractional value `width` to a Column sets its width to the value provided to it, making it unaffected by any changes to other columns' widths. Providing a `defaultWidth` allows you
> to specify a Column's initial width, but allows the column width to freely shrink and grow in response to changes in other column widths. `minWidth` and `maxWidth` allows you to restrict a Column's width to a minimum and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Providing a non-fractional value `width` to a Column sets its width to the value provided to it, making it unaffected by other columns' widths. Providing a `defaultWidth` allows you
to specify a Column's initial width, but allows the column width to freely shrink and grow in in relation to other column widths. `minWidth` and `maxWidth` allows you to restrict a Column's width to a minimum and
```

just some wording, it isn't only when columns change. It's initial layout as well.
it might be worthwhile to liken `width` and `defaultWidth` to `value` and `defaultValue` for controlled and uncontrolled column widths.

> maximum value respectively. In general, TableView prioritizes columns with defined widths and divides the remaining space evenly amongst the other columns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
maximum value respectively. TableView prioritizes columns with defined widths and divides the remaining space evenly amongst the other columns.
```
or you can change to "Generally stated, ..."
but saying "In general" makes it sound like sometimes TableView doesn't behave like this.

### Resize events

> TableView accepts an `onResize` prop which is triggered whenever a column resizer is moved by the user. This can be used in combination with the `width` prop to update a Column's in a controlled fashion. TableView also accepts

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
TableView accepts an `onResize` prop which is triggered whenever a column resizer is moved by the user. This can be used in combination with the `width` prop to update a Column's width in a controlled fashion. TableView also accepts
```

an `onResizeEnd` prop as well, triggered when the user finishes a column resize operation. Both events receive a Map object containing the widths of every column in the TableView.

> The example below illustrates how each of the aforementioned column width properties affects their respective column's resize behavior. It also demonstrates when `onResize` and `onResizeEnd` fire when resizing and the prints the values provided to each.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example below illustrates how each of the aforementioned column width properties affects their respective column's resize behavior. It also demonstrates when `onResize` and `onResizeEnd` fire while resizing and displays the values received by each.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: we should mention somewhere in here that a resize event locks all columns to the left of the resizing column to a pixel width, so it's not just one column that changes at a time

Author: Hm, IMO this feels a bit specific and potentially confusing the reader. Do you feel that this might be a common question a user of column resize might ask?
